# Your company needs software.

Software is taking over the world.  Everywhere you look there is new technology. Technology being controlled by software. Businesses are being connected by software. Web sites are being generated by software.  

Successful businesses recognise the need for software to enable their business processes to become automated and more efficient, to help collate data into information enabling better decisions to be made sooner, to engage with their customers more easily and more regularly.  

Businesses that don't take the opportunity to improve their business processes, their customer engagement and their business partner collaborations will find it harder to keep up and, ultimately, survive in a world that is becoming smaller by the year, thanks to technology and the software that drives it.

Customers expect to have instant access to information about a business. They want instant access to product information and product availability. They use technology driven by software to buy things instantly. Business partners expect quicker,automated, more efficient of working together. 

Developing good quality software isn't easy.  If it was there wouldn't be so many stories in the press of failed software projects. But it can be done. With an understanding of the business goal, just enough analysis and a development model that allows experienced developers to deliver a solution that evolves through working feedback. A successful software development project can help your business improve and thrive.

Two popular options for developing software specific to your business are to hire contractors or to partner with a software development company. Which of these options you choose should be a decision based on more than price alone.  

Hiring freelance contractors is generally a little cheaper and as they work as an independent entity. If you have more than one contractor then you will need to manage the group and hope that they work well together. Once the contract is complete there is no obligation for a contractor to continue working with you, even if there is more work required to complete your project. Hiring a freelance contractor could be a good choice if you have a small, highly specialised piece of work.

Software development companies are generally more expensive but will look to become long-term technology partners. They work with you to understand your vision and business goals and help develop software that meets your needs.  They value their reputation and look to form long-lasting relationships in the form of new project development, feature updates, maintenance and bug-fixes for current products.  Software development companies are a good choice for startups and more involved projects.

## Working with Elastic Mint

We are an approachable team with many years of experience. We engage with our customers to properly understand the problem they are trying to solve. We automate the testing, build and deployment process so we can concentrate on developing new features. We work with businesses to identify which features add the most value and regularly deliver fully working, usable software.

Our customers love working with us because we work transparently, respond quickly, and focus on providing the solution that best fits their needs.

If we sound like the sort of company you'd like to work with, get in touch.