drafts/choose-software-dev-co/02-choose-soft-dev-co.md, before:

# Choosing a software development partner.

## It's time to invest in bespoke software

We live in a world where it is becomeing increasingly difficult for businesses to survive without software. Successful businesses recognise the need for software to enable their business processes to become automated and more efficient. There are many great off-the-shelf packages, but the time often comes when something custom is required. This might be a web service enabling business to business communication, or an application to manage a process, or something specific to the product a business sells.

Once the decision has been made to invest in custom software what are the choices?

## Contractors or a Software Development Company?

Freelance contractors can be a really good choice for small, highly specialised pieces of work. Typically with a contractor, you will get an experienced developer who will work in your office and just slot in to how you want to work. Once you get a few contractors in, you then have to start managing them, plus there is no guarantee that they will work well together. When the initial contract ends a contractor is under no obligation to continue working with you. They may decide to move on even if your project remains unfinished.

Another consideration is the expected change to the IR35 legislation. It is increasingly likely that the responsibility for deciding whether a contractor is an employee in all but name will shift from the contractor to the business employing the company the contractor works through. In practice many contractors look very similar to employees and companies find it hard to treat them differently to permanent employees. If the expected legislation is passed it will be interesting to see what impact this has on the contractor market.

An alternative to contractors, is to hire a software development company. Whilst being more expensive than contractors, a good software development company will want to become a long-term partner. They will work with you to understand your vision and business goals and help develop software that meets your needs.  They value their reputation and look to form long-lasting relationships in the form of new project development, feature updates, maintenance and bug-fixes for current products. Unlike contractors, they will typically work from their own office using their own equipment, thus having minimal impact on the day-to-day running of your business.  Software development companies are a good choice for startups and more involved projects. 

## Working with Elastic Mint

We are an approachable team with many years of experience. We engage with our customers to properly understand the problem they are trying to solve. We automate the testing, build and deployment process so we can concentrate on developing new features. We work with businesses to identify which features add the most value and regularly deliver fully working, usable software.

Our customers love working with us because we work transparently, respond quickly, and focus on providing the solution that best fits their needs.

If we sound like the sort of company that can help your business, get in touch.

Commit message:

Updated article on contractors and software companies

drafts/choose-software-dev-co/02-choose-soft-dev-co.md, after:

# Choosing a software development partner

## It's time to invest in bespoke software

We live in a world where it is becoming increasingly difficult for businesses to survive without software. Successful businesses recognise the need for software to enable their business processes to become automated and more efficient. There are many great off-the-shelf packages, but the time often comes when something custom is required. This might be a web service enabling business to business communication, an application to manage a process, or something specific to the product a business sells.

Once the decision has been made to invest in custom software what are the choices?

## Contractors or a Software Development Company?

In the right situation freelance contractors can be a really good choice. Typically with a contractor, you will get an experienced developer who will work in your office and just slot in to how you want to work. Once you get a few contractors in, you then have to start managing them, plus there is no guarantee that they will work well together. When the initial contract ends a contractor is under no obligation to continue working with you. They may decide to move on even if your project remains unfinished.

Another consideration is the expected change to the IR35 legislation. The UK government has recently completed a consultation on IR35 in the private sector. The expected result from this will be to place responsibility for deciding employment status of contractors with the end client. This means that if you engage with one or more contractors, you will be responsible for evaluating IR35 compliance. Getting this wrong could be expensive. In practice many contractors are treated very similarly to permanent employees. If the expected legislation is passed it will be interesting to see what impact this has on the contractor market.

An alternative to contractors is to hire a software development company. Whilst being more expensive than contractors, a good software development company will want to become a long-term partner. They will work with you to understand your vision and business goals and help develop software that meets your needs.  They value their reputation and look to form long-lasting relationships in the form of new project development, feature updates, maintenance and bug-fixes for current products. Unlike contractors, they will typically work from their own office using their own equipment, thus having minimal impact on the day-to-day running of your business. 

## Working with Elastic Mint

We are an approachable team with many years of experience. We engage with our customers to properly understand the problem they are trying to solve. We automate the testing, build and deployment process so we can concentrate on developing new features. We work with businesses to identify which features add the most value and regularly deliver fully working, usable software.

Our customers love working with us because we work transparently, respond quickly, and focus on providing the solution that best fits their needs.

If we sound like the sort of company that can help your business, get in touch.
