partners/content/ourstory.md, before:

+++
title =  "Our Story"
description = "How Elastic Mint came into being"
keywords = ["about","our","story","elastic mint", "andy garner", "jon reynolds", "gordon barrs"]
+++

Andy, Jon and Gordon are software developers. It's what they do. They enjoy developing good quality software. It makes them happy.  They've each been developing software for between fifteen and twenty years.  

They met whilst working as contractors at Just Eat and kept in touch as they each moved on to various other companies.  They had the idea that a small team of expert software developers could be very effective and cost-efficient at designing and delivering software. With all the experience they had acquired over the years they felt the time was right to set up a company that could help others achieve their business goals, with the help of software, in a way that offers tangible value very early on.  

Elastic Mint was born from the desire to deliver excellent software using smaller teams of extremely experienced developers. Collaboration, communication and a shared understanding of business goals feature highly in our way of working. [Contact us](/contact)  if you would like us to design and deliver an upcoming project or would like to talk about an idea you have for a software solution to your business goals.

Commit message:

Update our story from `they` to `we`

partners/content/ourstory.md, after:

+++
title =  "Our Story"
description = "How Elastic Mint came into being"
keywords = ["about","our","story","elastic mint", "andy garner", "jon reynolds", "gordon barrs"]
+++

We've each been developing software for between fifteen and twenty years.  We met whilst working as contractors and kept in touch as we each moved on to various other companies.  We had the idea that a small team of expert software developers could be very effective and cost-efficient at designing and delivering software. With all the experience we had acquired over the years we felt the time was right to set up a company that could help others achieve their business goals, with the help of software, in a way that offers tangible value very early on.  

Elastic Mint was born from the desire to deliver excellent software using smaller teams of extremely experienced developers. Collaboration, communication and a shared understanding of business goals feature highly in our way of working. [Contact us](/contact)  if you would like our help to design and deliver an upcoming project or would like to talk about an idea you have for a software solution to your business goals.
